---
layout: post
title: The Mom Test Notes
categories: business
---

1. Stop asking bad questions. "Do you think it's a good idea?" "Would you use
this?" These questions are bad because you're asking people to speculate about
the future and people are overly optimistic and bad at predicting the future.
Instead ask them about the past, then you are dealing with concrete facts, not
speculations. Better questions are "When was the last time you...?", "Did you try
to search for a solution?", "How are you currently solving the problem?"

2. Try get as concrete responses as possible. Try to avoid answers like, "I
usually do..." or questions like "Do you ever...?" Try to get them to describe
specific instances. Dig deeper into generic responses like "I always.." or "I
never...". Usually there are exceptions that may be interesting.

3. You should ignore basically everything that isn't a concrete description of
the past or an actual commitment. This includes compliments like "That's a great
idea!" or non-commital promises like, "I would definitely buy that".

4. When you get a feature request, always ask dig deeper into why they want it.
The real reason might surprise you.

5. Even if someone says they have a problem, it might not be a big enough
problem for them to actually try to solve it. Even if they seem to hate the
problem they might just want to complain, or they already have a work around
that's good enough that they won't pay for a solution.

6. Product risk vs market risk: Talking with customers the right way can lower
market risk but not product risk. Market risk is whether people want what you're
offering, product risk is whether you will be able to deliver the promises of
that product. Video games have high product risk, because it's hard to validate
the product value without building a lot of it.