---
layout: post
title: How To Get Better At Cooking As A Beginner
categories: cooking
---

I've started to get the hang of a couple recipes. Here a few things that I've
realized.

First it's good to have some resources that you can browse for new recipes. I
like to pick something that looks easy and healthy. Then I'll try to make it
once and if I like it I'll try to make it a bunch more times because usually
there's some obvious mistakes that I made that are easy to fix.

And I think you can just do this repeatedly with new recipes and honestly that
will take you pretty far. But I think you'll eventually reach a point where
you're not sure what to do to get better and I think the next step is to start
thinking more about the individual ingredients. Looking into the best way to
cook a single ingredient.

For example, I've always cooked bacon in a pan. Then I started to wonder what is
the best way to cook bacon? I looked it up online, and some people would argue
that the best way to cook bacon is in the oven. Funny enough it never occurred
to me to cook bacon in the oven.

Another example, how best to cook a potato? I'd tried to baking and pan frying,
and these were okay. But after looking into it more I discovered parboiling,
which is basically just boiling the potato before baking or pan frying. Much
faster and more consistent results.

Or cooking meat. I understand now that you can enhance the meat's flavor when
you sear the it, which means cooking the outside of the meat on high heat so
that it turns brown.

There are other things you can consider other than just the cooking method. Like
what a single ingredient can be substituted for. Or how best to season that
ingredient. Or even where you're sourcing that ingredient. Either way I think
this is a great way to start thinking about cooking more seriously.