---
layout: post
title: Empathy Vs Compassion
categories: random
tags: [sam harris]
---

Recently listened to an interesting podcast episode of Sam Harris's podcast,
which is very good and you can find it on youtube. This episode had Paul Bloom
as a featured guest and they had an interesting discussion about empathy vs
compassion. Paul Bloom is a professor who wrote a book called Against Empathy
where he argues that empathy can cause us to make bad, even immoral, decisions.

So the first useful thing is understanding that there's a difference. Compassion
is wanting the well-being of others, whereas empathy is feeling what other
people are feeling. Bloom talks about a study they did where they tracked brain
activity of someone being told to feel compassion and then empathy, and they
triggered activity in different parts of the brain.

The problem with empathy is that it is often irrational. For example we tend to
empathize more with people that are similar to us which can lead to racist
decisions. Another interesting example was war. Someone had asked Bloom if
empathy wasn't the answer to stopping wars, but Bloom thinks that empathy
actually contributes to war because we empathize with the victims on our own
side. Unchecked empathy also looks like the cause of all the worst parts of
[identity politics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_politics) that we're
seeing more of recently.

The second interesting thing is the idea that compassion feels good but empathy
doesn't necessarily. In the experiment I mentioned earlier, inducing empathy was
found to be exhausting but compassion is almost a high. This makes sense if you
think of it as feeling a kind of love. That makes me think everyone should try
to be more compassionate and less empathetic, if only to make themselves happier.