---
layout: post
title: Mindfulness Meditation
categories: meditation
---

Generally people are interested in meditation because they want more control
over their mind. Maybe they feel depressed or anxious or have trouble focusing.
This tells us that our minds are doing something outside of our control. Not
just that, our minds are doing things that we aren't even aware of. For example,
when you realize you've wasted another three hours browsing reddit or youtube
when you had actual work to do instead.

I heard a great explanation of what you should be doing when you start meditating
on Sam Harris's podcast recently. Which is that you start out simply observing
the behavior of your own mind. This is something you can do anytime, anywhere.

When you do this you realize that you mind is like a constant stream of random
thoughts and feelings. And generally people go through life allowing whatever
thought or feeling that comes down this stream to carry them off. They see a
donut and they feel the desire to eat it so they do. They have a worry or have
a depressing thought and they fixate on it.

But when you only observe your own mind without indulging it, you can see how
temporary these thoughts and feelings are. They really are like a stream, they
come and go and are replaced by new thoughts and feelings that also come and go.
For example, let's say you are meditating, sitting cross-legged and you feel a
discomfort in your legs and you have a sudden feeling that you want to adjust
your legs into a more comfortable position. But if you just observe that feeling
and wait, you might find that the feeling has passed in no more than a few
seconds.

This is how your mind is always working. Thoughts and feelings come and go for
just moments at a time. They may come back but you can just wait a moment and
they'll pass. And often these thoughts and feelings are meaningless or useless.
People often approach their thoughts and feelings as though they are inherently
meaningful or useful. Maybe because they've never considered there could be any
alternative. But often they're not and the best thing to do is simply let the
thought or feeling pass.

I had a recent example of how meditation helped me when I went running. When
you're running hard, the physical feedback you're getting is consistent. You
breathe harder, your body heats up, your legs get tired. But the thought/feeling
that you want to stop is just as random and temporary as any other random
thought or feeling that enters your head when you're running. Of course you
always want to be aware of the physical feedback that tells you if you are
possibly going to injure yourself, but this is different from the mental feeling
that you want to stop, which comes long before any risk of injury. Since my goal
is to hit a certain running pace, this feeling is actually completely useless to
me. And I know that if I ignore the feeling it will pass. It may come back, it
might not even take a minute to do so, but again I can ignore the feeling and it
will pass.